Report 3/4/21
Because the server for our web app is maintained by the university, some unique steps are required to establish and maintain a database through the app. I, and other developers on the team, must install a database management application, such as mySQL Workbench. Our project advisor, the faculty member who established the space where the app is being hosted, will need to create the databse through the cPanel system where the web page is managed. They must then use cPanel to whitelist the IP addresses of myself and the other developers.

I have provided my IP address and database account information to the advisor. I have also installed mySQL Workbench, and begun experimenting with its basic functions.

From here, some modifications will need to be made to the project files in order to access the database, which is planned to be worked on in the coming weeks.

Some time was also spent researching recent standards for SRS documents to ensure that our own is formatted correctly. I was surprised to find that the standards have not been modified in quite a long time. Formatting has been done, but the document is not yet in a presentable state, and has not been included.

Sources:
https://www.hostgator.com/help/article/how-do-i-create-a-mysql-database-a-user-and-then-delete-if-needed
https://www.hostgator.com/help/article/managing-your-database-with-applications
https://www.hostgator.com/help/article/how-to-connect-to-the-mysql-database
https://www.mysql.com/products/workbench/
http://www.cse.msu.edu/~cse870/IEEEXplore-SRS-template.pdf

Report 2/18/21

The university "myCoyote" system uses a single sign-on program, SSO, hosted by Shibboleth IdP. Shibboleth is an implementation of the Security Assertion Markup Language 2.0, or SAML2, which is a standard for the exchange of XML documents between a service provider, such as the University's myCoyote, and an identity provider, such as Shibboleth IdP. By communicating with an identity provider in this way, the service provider can obtain basic information about the user, such as the student's name, CoyoteID, and email address, without ever dealing with the user's password or other secure information.

In order to interact with the Shibboleth Identity Provider, the service provider, that being the HonorsBook program in my case, must have downloaded the Shibboleth Service Provider package, which has been done in my local copy of the app. Once the package is included, the configuration must be modified to match the specific app being developed. This information is contained in the shibboleth2.xml file, much of which has already been modified appropriately using the app's URL, as well as the EntityID and metadata source used by the university system.

At this point, the information available to me begins to exceed my level of understanding. By my understanding, there are two important steps remaining. Firstly, my app's metadata must be added to the metadata feed used by the university. This would require me to generate the app's metadata, which I am still unsure of how to do. Then I may either submit that data along with the app's URL to the InCommon Federation, which I know very little about, or submitting the data directly to the university by including it in a BitBucket pull request, which I would feel more comfortable doing, assuming that I had that data to give and understood what to do with it. Secondly, once the metadata is where it belongs, the app would have to be programmed with an automatic redirect to the Shibboleth IdP for login. Shibboleth would automatically redirect the user back to the app once they have signed in, and the user's id can then be read to show them their appropriate profile within the app. I have yet to find any information regarding how this would be accomplished. I am unsure of if a simple HTML redirect command to a particular URL would be sufficient, or if additional data must be sent at the same time. Either way, I can't seem to find what that URL would be.

These two steps may be the primary focus of my research in the immediate future.

Unfortunately, as our team has recently lost a member, there is a likelihood that this pursuit may be dropped in order to save time. If that is the case, my next task will most likely be work on the planned tagging system, in addition to continued work on the Software Requirements Specification Document.

Sources:
https://slack-files.com/T0YRQHDC1-FLW61AUL9-aaf4d1eefb
https://wiki.shibboleth.net/confluence/display/SP3/Home
https://spaces.at.internet2.edu/display/federation/